Hello everyone and welcome to the creating models lecture for Django level.
We covered a lot of concepts in the previous lecture.
So let's actually start implementing them and in order to do that we are going to continue working with
the two project folders from Gengel level 1.
If you don't have those you can always download them from the course notes.
OK let's start making some models.
I'm going to hop over to the editor and open up the first project folder now.
OK here I am at the editor and I have my file structure.
Jingle level 1 and I have two projects from jingle level on Pro 2 and first project.
So you can open those up.
And what I want you to do is inside of first app open up the models that py file and you should have
somewhere in that model up my file from Django that the import models and if you don't have that for
some reason go ahead and type that in.
And now we're going to do is using object oriented programming will create models with Shango.
So models as we discussed in a previous lecture are just classes and then we give the actual name you
can kind of relate these to the name of the table inside the database and then we'll actually inherit
from models the model.
So that's the base class.
So we're going to have this topic be a derived class and then this class object attribute top underscore
name is going to be equal to models dot and then we actually have to specify what kind of field it's
going to be.
This is going to be a character field for the actual topic and then we'll say max length is equal to
2 6 4.
So max length is a constraint of this character field.
It's really up to you what value you choose for the maximum length.
Obviously you should have some maximum length otherwise your users are going to be able to put as many
characters as they want and you'll have to save them to 6 4 for a topic name.
It's probably overkill but that's totally fine.
Now we can say unique which is a Bramber to require as a constraint that all the topics be unique.
I mean you can have duplicates in there so we'll say that's true as well and then usually you'll also
want to have some sort of string representation of your model.
So if you ever have to print out an instance of topic you will be able to do that without any error.
So we know that there's a special method for that from the Object Oriented Programming sections.
And that's just the SDR and then we're going to say return self-taught top name.
Right now it's create two more models.
We'll create a web page models the model
and then we'll create a three class object attributes here the topic.
And these are essentially the columns inside the table with page.
And this will be a foreign key.
Because we're going to grab from topic which makes sense.
And then we have name which is going to be models.
And this will be a character field.
And we'll get this as well a max length set that include 2 6 4 2 6 4 1 2 8.
It's totally fine whatever you want.
And I also want to specify the unique constraint here to be true.
And then finally I'm going to have your all equal to models your air field and I also want this to be
unique
so you can always visit the documentation of Django for the actual available fields.
But we're definitely going to be showing you the most common ones as we continue on through this course.
Things like integer fields date fields etc. So just keep that in mind and then we also want some sort
of string representation here.
Pasand self and I'm going to say return self-taught and we'll return the name of the web page as its
string representation Finally let's create an Access record class
and this will also inherit from models Top Model and what this access record class is going to be is
will say the name of models thought foreign key and then what we will do is passen web page and we're
also going to have a date field.
When was it actually accessed.
So the date column will be models dot a date field no X or constraints there.
And then if I want to string representation of this I'll say this to your self and then I'm going to
just pass the actual date so I'll return.
Self-taught date.
But unfortunately since this is a Date Time object it needs us because it has a string.
And if you're ever unsure if one of these fields is going to be able to just simply be represented as
string you can always just cast it using the SDR builtin function.
OK.
So looks like all our models are ready.
Now it's time to actually create the sequel databases behind these models.
And this is what the real power of Django is is all you have to do is to find classes here and it's
going to take care of the rest of actually building out that sequel database for you.
And we do that through a series of commands.
The first thing we need to do is to actually initiate this entire process in that project folder.
I will call Python manage PI and then call migrate enter and you should see running migrations.
And if you've already run this if you read it twice you'll see no migrations to apply.
I accidentally already ran it before I filled this.
So Bill says no migrations for you.
It will say something else if you haven't run this already.
Then the next thing you have to do is register the changes to your application.
So we will do here say Python managed up PI and we call make migrations and make sure I spell that right.
Yep make migrations and then the name of your application.
In our case it's simple Sia's first app will enter and you'll see some other things.
Now I got no changes detected an app for SAP because I already ran this again.
You'll get something else will say something like.
Creating a model creating model accepter and after you've done that you need to run Python may manage
that PI migrate one more time.
So say Python managed up-I migrate one more time.
And for me it says no migration supply.
You'll probably get something different since you'll be running it for the first time.
So those three commands this one by four managed up high then I managed up high make migrations.
Your application name.
And then again I managed that PI migrate and now our models should be ready and connected to a sequel
database that Django just created for us and register the changes to our application.
Now the question arises Well how do you actually confirm that all of this worked.
And how do you actually interact with that database.
Well we'll show you the most simple and basic way and that's to create some test data with some shell
commands.
So using Python at the Shell we can actually interact for database and this is going to do that.
I will call Python managed up PI show and this will open up an interactive console for me I'm using
Python 3.5 here you're probably using some 3.6.
That's totally fine.
Either one should work and I'm going to collapse that tree so we can see a little more here and whoops
that's not what I meant to do.
Ok come back down to the con..
Here we go now to make sure everything's working I'm just going to Prince.
Hello.
I should get hello back and good it's working fine.
What we'll do is we'll say from first underscore app dot models.
So this is the models that py file have open right here.
From that first app folder import topic's actually import in instance Erck import that class so we can
work with it.
And that worked fine.
If you get an error here it's probably because you forgot to do the migration command so keep that in
mind.
And then we can say Prince topic objects.
All clothes princes and if I run this this will actually print all the objects in that topic model or
topic table.
You'll get nothing back the first time.
So let's create something else.
Say T is equal to an instance of topic and I will say the top name.
So the topic name is the social network so maybe a couple of Web sites follow social networks things
like Instagram Facebook.
I don't know if anyone's still on MySpace but you get the idea.
Enter here and then to actually save this change.
I say T Dot save and that's a method that we inherit from the models that model class.
So enter now it's saved.
So if I run that previous command of current topic the object stopped all I get back Cleary's set topic
social network.
Great.
So I actually was able to affect all of this and I'm going to quit.
So so far we've created models and we've created the databases behind them and we actually use shell
commands to add something.
Now we're definitely not going to be using the shell every time we want to add something or view or
model or get an idea of what the database actually contains.
In order to use more convenience we use the admin interface and this is again a really awesome feature
jingo.
It's going to have a fully developed admin interface with very little work from us but in order to have
the admin interface with the models we need to register them to our applications admin that py file.
So let's show you how we can do that when to open up the directory tree here.
And I have my application folder and inside of that I see Adam and up-I and it looks something like
this from Django that contrib import adman.
And it says register your models here.
So I need to basically tell my application that my models exist.
So I'll say from and then you put in the name of your application so my case its first app that models
so that models that py file import and then I'm going to import all the models so that's Axxess record.
That's topic an atom should be helping you out here.
And then the last one was called web page I believe.
Great.
And then it's time to register them in the way you register them is from that Admin site.
Register and it should be lowercase and then we passen the actual model so we can start with access
record and then we'll do this a couple of more times for the other two models will say register topic
and admin dot sites register register and then finally what page.
OK.
So these are registered and ready to be used with the admin interface in order to actually fully use
the database with the admin interface.
I need to create a super user that way not just any Joe Schmo can come in and start messing around for
our database only people who were creating the web site and had access to all of this information could
create a super user and we can do that with the following.
So under first project I say Python managed up PI.
And then we say create super user and then later from the admin interface you can create more super
users or give people more permissions.
But we have to create at least one super user here from this command line.
So create a super user and we need to have a user name a password and an email address.
Now it's totally up to you what you want to provide.
Here is your user name email and password.
Just really make sure that you remember them or write them down somewhere.
Otherwise you have to repeat this entire create super superuser process so I'm going to say I'm a user
name is Jose.
E-mail address let's say training at Pierian data that com.
And then my password elders say T E S T P S S W O R D.
Test password.
It won't let you do super weak password so keep that in mind.
This one that I'm typing in is really weak.
Just test password but I don't really care since I'm never actually going to launch this website.
All right.
So I created a super user.
Now it's time to actually use that super user the admin interface and let's do that by actually running
the server and checking out the admin interface in our browser.
So I'll say Python managed up-I run server enter and hopefully have no errors.
Ok I'm going to copy and paste this and jump to my browser.
OK so here I am at my browser if you did everything correctly you shouldn't notice anything on the front
end change you still get this picture of Dangeau himself.
But if you say slash admen and hit enter now you get a log in where you can provide your username and
then your password.
So it's provider password.
My case it was really weak as password log in and now this is what the Django adamant page looks like.
And this was all done automatically for you.
By Jingo the sequel databases were created for you this Adam and page was created for you with just
those few lines of code and I know right now it may seem like I have do a lot of work to get all this
but when I see or feel really comfortable with Django this is going to feel like magic every time.
It still amazes me every time that jingle does this all for you automatically So this is really really
awesome.
OK.
So if we check out topics I can actually click on topics here and I see that I have my topics social
network and then I can click on that I can delete it I can save add another saving to editing a history
of this comeback.
The first app topics are Whoops.
Come see something else.
Access records right now I have zero access records I can manually add in an Access record.
So that's pretty cool as well.
So let's say I go to web pages and instead of using shell commands I could click here at a web page
I select the topic.
I can either click plus here to add another topic or select from existing topics.
Remember this is a foreign key into another table so it's a drop down menu social network and then we
can give it a name.
So this web page can be something like Google and your Will something like W.W. google.com and then
we're just going to say save and now I have a web page.
Great.
And now you can see how we can use Django admen to create an access records.
Now you also see just how powerful the admin interface and why only certain people should have authentication
and authorization to access this page.
If someone else maliciously access this page they can do a lot of damage to your website.
So again this is super important that you protect access to this Admin Page.
This essentially gives you control over the entire site and later on the course will discuss users groups
permissions.
A lot more we can see here there's already an authentication authorization application for us.
You can check out users right now we only have Jose that's me.
But maybe you're working with other people in your company and you want to add permissions.
You can eventually add users from here so you can say as a user their username password password confirmation
etc..
So again Django admin interface a lot of power here.
You've got to keep the safe OK so that's it for now.
Coming up next we're going to continue talking about Django models and a lot more.
And we'll also show you how to actually use the library faker to populate your databases.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next level.